CommanderZZ Code Blog - You will love it

= Introduction =

Here we present our development diary. Some sort of improved bible in the future.


= Details =

We started in 22th of april 2007 (new era 0, a.k.k.), this blog is created on 27th of may 2007 (or, as we like it, 0:13, 5. Feb 0 a.k.k.). You get it, pal?

== Sat/sun 26/27 May 2007 ==
Kyra (drained 1.5h with esoteric mambo jambo), Hoppe, Fabian


  * Added explosions to player and objects, first time we and the enemy (a nice little truck) exploded.
  * Created/found new problems with collision
  * Added shots to the player
  * When many objects are present the game becomes veeery slow. We'll have to improve that!


== Sun, 27 May 2007 (Night) ==
Hoppe, was still in the mood for ~0:45h

  * An object does not only rotate about it's own angle, but also around the parent angle, if it has a parent. That must still be done for the collision polygon

Fabian too...

  * CEnemy's can not collide with CObject's anymore, which allows them to drive on the ground 

== Sun, 27 May 2007 ==
Fabian has done some small things after swimming in the Werdersee:

  * Damage model will be applied for all objects
  * Speed of explosion depends on object hitpoints. The more hitpoints the more buum. Formula is inspired by [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michaelis-Menten_kinetics michaelis - menten] enzyme kinetics.

== Sun, 27 May 2007 ==
Hoppe: Sunday, cruddy sunday...

  * I did stuff on the player gun: it stays attached to the player accuratly. The shots have a correct angle and start position (even when heli is flipped).

== Mon, 28 May 2007 ==
Fabian: in the morning nebula...

  * The player gun poly and rect are now rotated and flipped correctly
  * Discovered a bad thing: When two shots hit each other, the poly disappears, because both use the same polygon... (in CObject::isCollided) Ahhh. Possible solution:
  If (a_polygonAPtr == a_polygonBPtr) make a working copy of one... the code doesent get nicer by that. Tried it. It is too slow, because this case happens so often... Probably we have to give each object it's own polygon back.

== Sat/Sun, 2/3 Jun 2007 ==
Hoppe and Fabian: Some disturbance by Meike or Melanie (says Hoppe), Willy and other things.

  * Started to give each object it's polygon back
  * Lots of prob's... unsolved at 2:39... Puh!
  * Discovered (and were unabe to solve until 3:41) strange collision detection bug. Polygons seem always to collide, when box test is positive. Why????????????

Hoppe: after writing this text we considered all over and decided that this is the optimal time point for refactoring. Stuff became too difficult, we have to sort out things. My first proposal: Make a storage facility for objects in game class. Yeah, a game class proposed by Fabs. By the way, we all are a bit over the edge right now. Sitting with us are Flix & Willi.

*Commanderz market letter (06/2007):* _We hereby predict that at the end of next week the DAX will point downwards with a value < 8000. This is based on the unusual high slope of the DAX which will result in profit taking actions._

== Mon, 4 Jun 2007 ==

Hoppe and Fabian: Hoppe was a bit tired this day and Fabian has to get up early tomorrow, so this day we did not add too much code. Here some details
  * We thought about the key issues in the code for a redesign
  * Implemented CGame as the game flow control class. a function here is responible for assigning function pointers to glut methods. So Level etc. can have own update/render functions
  * Started on the Objcet Storage class that holds all objects, updates them and checks collision. Those taks create game events with are processed, too.
  * We want to check collision with a quad tree. Fabs showed some web pages about that stuff and we think we will try it out.

== Tue, 5 Jun 2007 ==

Hoppe & Fabian, Proceeded only a little, due to guests at Hoppes house and general lack of evening spare time:
  * Object Storage class (CObjectStorage) was developed a little further.
  * Object loading via xml file was polished.

== Fr/Sa, 8/9 June 2007 ==

Hoppe & Fabian without disturbance (except themself). Both a bit tired again (or as always). Birthday of M., Fabians sister.

  * Cleaned up loader methods in object classes. Everthing looks so clean and easy now.
  * Started to compile code, Could not finish through a lack of competency with function pointers. Really hard stuff.

== Sun, 10. June 2007 ==

Hoppe & Fabian, without interruption (only Flo complained about too annoying guests one time). Fabian came around 0:00, so this session counts as sunday, not saturday. I had a very lazy day (at least I cleand up my room), Fabian was on a birthday party and could play PS3 on a very big high def plasma TV. Great times!

  * KK3000 runs again (yeeaahh). Fixed remaining loading problems
  * restored players ability to shoot (enemy can't, no collision yet!)

We discovered that std::map::operator[] adds an element to the hash table, not std::map::operator=. Or at least both. Kind of disturbing...

== Mon, 11. June 2007 ===

H & F. Fabs typed. Hoppe was lazy (cooking and so on):

  * Tracking for weapons works now (again..., but much better)
  * CEvent class for events
  * Shots generate a delete event when out of boundary.
  * Events are processed

== Tue / Wed, 12./13. June 2007  ===

Fabian: due to lack of sleeping ablility, worked on a real hashtable (std::map is some red black tree and NOT a hashtable as we thought). Hoppe supported me via Skype (Cleaned up my template mess).

  * CHashMap created. Is not used by the CObjectStorage class yet. Is supposed to replace std::map there.

Method for iteration needs still to be done... Tmrw... Now: 1:08am. Have to get up at 6:30.

Fabian (June, 13th. afternoon):

  * CHashMap has now a method to iterate the items. Seems to work, but has to be tested more precisely before KK3000 use... Have to go now.

== Thu, 14. June 2007  ===

Fabian, early at home due to hangover from yesterday. Afternoon proggin':

  * CObjectStorage::m_objectMap is now using CHashMap. Works! Woha!!